paper_notes/mvf.md, before:

# [MVF: End-to-End Multi-View Fusion for 3D Object Detection in LiDAR Point Clouds](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.06528)

_November 2020_

tl;dr: Improve point embedding with dynamic voxelization and multiview fusion.

#### Overall impression
This paper is from the 1st author of [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md).

Both [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md) and [PointPillars](point_pillars.md) uses [PointNet](pointnet.md) to learn point embeddings, and generate pseudo-3D volume or pseudo-2D image to use 3D and 2D convolution. This paper improves the point embedding process by aggregating multiple views, and is a plug-and-play module that can be integrated into pointpillars. 

#### Key ideas
- **Dynamic voxelization**: instead of having a fixed array (K max voxel x T max point per voxel x F feat dim), it maintains a dictionary of the point-voxel relationship. 
	- The points in each dynamic voxel (having varying num of points) are aggregated into a fixed length feature by maxPooling, similar to PointNet. 
	- This avoid info loss and saves memory
- **Multiview fusion**: voxelization in Cartesian (X x Y x Z) with Z as the channel dim, and in speherical view (elevation x azimuth x radius) with radius as the channel dim. 
	- The features are extracted with a convolution tower that maintains the tensor shape
	- The features from Cartesian path, spherical path and original encoded features are concatenated. --> this enhances the original encoded features.
- The enhanced point features can be used in structures like [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md) and [PointPillars](point_pillars.md).

#### Technical details
- Dynamic voxelization can bring some KPI improvement (avoid info loss), but multiview fusion brings much more. 
- The lookup table is not readily available and need customized implementation of CUDA kernel to reach good speed. 
- This may not have constant runtime as it is based on the number of points in the frame. 

#### Notes
- [Review on 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/90039244)
- Why voxelization in spherical view helps?
	- 一般的voxel问题是在远处稀疏切割时，因为点已经很稀疏了，还是拿原size进行切割，常常会有过度分割的问题，导致voxel feature提取的也不是很好，如果能透过Frustum在远处进行较大的voxel切割，则能有效的提升远处voxel feature的问题，也因此本文透过融合两种角度voxel进行实验， 也证明了确实有效。

Commit message:

Add pillar based OD (lidar)

paper_notes/mvf.md, after:

# [MVF: End-to-End Multi-View Fusion for 3D Object Detection in LiDAR Point Clouds](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.06528)

_November 2020_

tl;dr: Improve point embedding with dynamic voxelization and multiview fusion.

#### Overall impression
This paper is from the 1st author of [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md).

Both [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md) and [PointPillars](point_pillars.md) uses [PointNet](pointnet.md) to learn point embeddings, and generate pseudo-3D volume or pseudo-2D image to use 3D and 2D convolution. This paper improves the point embedding process by aggregating multiple views, and is a plug-and-play module that can be integrated into pointpillars. 

Note that both [PointPillars](point_pillars.md) and the successor [MVF](mvf.md) are both still using anchors for prediction. The entire procedure is not well described. See [Pillar OD](pillar_od.md) for a better description.

#### Key ideas
- Multiview architecture
	- Voxelize points in BEV or spherical view or cylindrical view to pillars.
	- Extract pillar features.
	- Project pillar features to points with nearest neighbor or bilinear interpolation and concat to point features. 
	- Transform point features to BEV
	- Detection backbone + head
![](https://miro.medium.com/max/942/0*dzktcm4hQwKh1oup.png)
- **Dynamic voxelization**: instead of having a fixed array (K max voxel x T max point per voxel x F feat dim), it maintains a dictionary of the point-voxel relationship. 
	- The points in each dynamic voxel (having varying num of points) are aggregated into a fixed length feature by maxPooling, similar to PointNet. 
	- This avoid info loss and saves memory
- **Multiview fusion**: voxelization in Cartesian (X x Y x Z) with Z as the channel dim, and in speherical view (elevation x azimuth x radius) with radius as the channel dim. 
	- The features are extracted with a convolution tower that maintains the tensor shape
	- The features from Cartesian path, spherical path and original encoded features are concatenated. --> this enhances the original encoded features.
- The enhanced point features can be used in structures like [VoxelNet](voxelnet.md) and [PointPillars](point_pillars.md).

#### Technical details
- Dynamic voxelization can bring some KPI improvement (avoid info loss), but multiview fusion brings much more. 
- The lookup table is not readily available and need customized implementation of CUDA kernel to reach good speed. 
- This may not have constant runtime as it is based on the number of points in the frame. 

#### Notes
- [Review on 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/90039244)
- Why voxelization in spherical view helps?
	- 一般的voxel问题是在远处稀疏切割时，因为点已经很稀疏了，还是拿原size进行切割，常常会有过度分割的问题，导致voxel feature提取的也不是很好，如果能透过Frustum在远处进行较大的voxel切割，则能有效的提升远处voxel feature的问题，也因此本文透过融合两种角度voxel进行实验， 也证明了确实有效。
